Just like how we added stocks, bonds,
and commodity ETFs to our portfolio,
you can also add real estate investment trusts,
or real estate investments
to your portfolio through what is called a REIT, R-E-I-T,
which stands for real estate investment trust.
It's REIT and not RE-IT.
So the benefit of doing this, right,
adding a REIT ETF to your portfolio
rather than buying real estate itself
for investment properties is that these REITs, R-E-I-Ts,
are much more liquid than investment properties,
meaning that they are easier to sell.
And in many countries REITs, by law,
have to pay out at least 90% of the money
that these REITs makes in the form of dividends.
Okay, they'll pay you dividends.
And as a result, REITs can have a very, very
attractive dividend yield, which we will see
in the exercise here when add six REITs
to our investment portfolio system,
investment portfolio management system.
Okay so please open up
your Complete Personal Finance Dashboard
and then go to exercise number 23.
And what we're gonna do here is were gonna add six REITs,
that's R-E-I-T, real estate investment trust.
We're gonna add six REITs to our
investment portfolio management system in this exercise.
Okay, and please notice the dividend yield
as you add these investments.
All right we're in the home stretch,
we're almost done the entire course.
So now we're gonna do real estate investment trust exercise,
which is number 23.
And so similar to what we did before
with the commodity exercise and the stock exercise
using our portfolio here,
we're gonna add the tickers to Yahoo Finance.
And this way it's so cool then,
because we manage all these different types of assets
in that one portfolio.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna add
the usual six tickers.
One of them is in my Toronto, my homeland.
And then we're gonna answer these questions.
And you'll notice down here that these are
the copper ones leftover.
And the reason is because if you click on the portfolio
those tickers are still there,
legacy ones from the last exercise.
So what we'll do is we will get
these tickers here in Yahoo.
So VNQs the first one.
Okay, let's go Chris.
All right so we will go to finance.yahoo.com.
Then we're going to create new portfolio.
We'll call it REITs.
We'll add the symbols, first one is VNQ.
What's next?
Then we've got SRETs.
Then we've got XRE.TO, which is Canadian.
SRE.TO or XRE.
Okay, sorry about that.
Then we got SCHH.
REET.
Then RWR.
Great, we hit enter.
And here we have them.
And then we are going to change the headings
because we want all the data points.
And if you...
Good, it knows, great.
Save, we're gonna copy these like we usually do.
Copy.
Go to settings.
Go down here and we'll just paste
on top of what we had last time.
Right here.
Great, then we will go back
and well answer the questions.
Great, first one.
Using Yahoo Finance, find out what the expense ratio is
on the Vanguard REIT, okay, which is VNQ.
Okay and then oh, another question.
What are the second through fifth largest holdings?
Okay, expense ratio on VNQ.
All right, that's Vanguard.
All right, expense ratio is 0.12, nice and low.
And the holdings,
there they are there.
Okay, that's fine.
Great.
Next question, second through fifth.
Oh come on Chris.
Two, three, four, five.
There, fine.
Okay, next one.
What was the inception date of this REIT?
I guess I'm referring to that one, okay.
R-E-E-T.
Go to summary, that's where we get inception date.
It was 2014, July 8.
Next.
What country this REIT has investments in.
SCHH, okay.
SCHH.
Holdings.
These are all U.S. based.
U.S. okay and remember the rule is,
REITs have to pay out 90% of the earnings as a dividend,
that's why the yields are nice.
Next up is, what was the dividend yield,
what's the dividend yield on the largest holding
of the SCHH REIT?
Okay, and I typed it there.
Holdings, Simon Property Group.
Click on it and we'll get the dividend yield in a second.
There we go, 4.36%.
Okay.
Next up.
What was the average daily volume for this REIT?
SRET.
Okay.
The average daily volume was 27,650.
Number six, what's the market cap
of the third largest holding of this REIT?
VNQ.
V, oops.
Third largest holding.
Holdings.
Third, one, two, three, Equinix.
The market cap is $34.94 billion.
All right, we are done.
And if you have any questions about this process
please let me know.
Couple more exercises, couple more lessons
and I'm sad to say we will be done.
But congratulation to you.
Please click this box
and I will see you next,
in the next lesson and then we'll talk about
diversification and do this exercise soon.
Thanks.